>> Kyle: We've talked
about function scoping,
let's shift our attention
now to block scoping.
Block scoping like it sounds,
it's scoping that's done with blocks aka
curly braces instead of with functions.
Same principle is gonna apply.
We wanna put something inside of a block
instead of inside of the enclosing
scope because we wanna hide it, so that
it has fewer chances of name collision.
We wanna protect a detail,
protect future refactoring,
all the same principle applies.
It's just the mechanism we use is now
a block scope declaration instead of
an IIFE, for example.
So Instead of writing an IIFE,
let's write it with a block.
And you can compare mentally
the difference between that example with
an IIFE or just using a curly braced
block and using a let statement like
a block scope decoration,
>> Kyle: It's a lot lighter
weight isn't it?.
It also has less side effects in the sense
it doesn't redefined anything about
returns or breaks or any of that other
stuff, so blocks are a bit easier and
lighter weight to put into places.
They're not expressions, so
you can't use them in places
where you can use expressions.
But if you have them in a place that's
a statement, it's totally okay.
And sometimes often a lot more preferable
to just do this lighter weight form,
wrap a curly brace pair
around something and
make a block scope
declaration inside of it.
Now you can't just do a var here
because historically vars have been
attaching themselves to the outer
function scope or global scope.
So a var here would have attached itself
to the outer scope rather than the curly
brace pair.
>> Kyle: Instead of breaking old
backward or old previous code,
they decided to add new declaration forms.
So it's where we get the let and
the const from.
Let and const are so that you can make
a declaration inside of a block and
it turns that block into a scope.
Blocks are not scopes until they have
a let or const inside of them and
then that sort of implicitly
makes them a scope.
That's a key place where
people sort of get,
they think that all curly braces
are scopes, and they're not all scopes.
They're only a scope if there's a let or
a const inside of it.
Okay, so this was a lightweight way
of doing this particular example.
But where does block scoping fit
in the larger scope of things?
I'm gonna make the claim that what you
should be doing with block scoping
is using something like
the let keyword to reinforce
something that you would have already
naturally wanted to signal to your reader.
Here's an example.
If you were writing code where you had
an if statement that needed a temporary
variable to do something,
in this case to swap two values.
And you called it tmp to
signal to the reader,
it's just a temporary placeholder,
I'm not really using it for much.
And definitely, I put the var tmp inside
of the if because I'm trying to say to
the reader, you don't need to access
this or use this anywhere else.
We know that the way var behaves
is that it'll attach itself to
the blue scope, right?
It'll be a blue marble attached
to the whole function if.
But we're signaling
something stylistically,
semantically to the reader which is to say
this variable belongs to the if statement.
If you do stuff like this, and some of
you may have put your vars inside of if
statements or
other sorts of blocks before or
maybe you put your var
statements inside of for loops.
That's a very common thing.
If you've done that,
then what you were already signalling was,
whether you realized it or not, hey
reader, this is a block scoped variable.
And now that we have a block scope
declaration, you can safely replace those
and now you are enforcing the thing that
you were already stylistically signalling.
That I think is the appropriate way to
approach this feature which is to say,
you should use it in places where it is
already obvious and correct design for
you to block scope something.
I do not think that you should go
looking for opportunities to more
complexify your code by
having more block scoping for
no particular reason, just so
you can use this hot new let keyword.
You should use it in places where it
already makes sense to block scope, okay?
So that's the first shift
that I wanna have in your
mental thinking is to think
about that as a replacement for
your already semantically
signalled block scope.
I'm not a big fan by the way of
this hijacking of scopes because I
normally think of an if statement
as just an if statement.
But now I have to look through the entire
contents of an if statement to figure out
if there's a let keyword in it and
figure out if that's also a scope.
And if it is a scope I have to be more
careful about what I move around and
where I can put what.
So I'm not a big fan of that whole
implicit hijacking thing but
I am a fan of being able to enforce
the thing that we were already signaling
which is, I want this thing to be local.
So what about this whole
let is the new var thing?
I'm sure you've heard this before,
as a matter of fact that's been replaced
even with const is the new let.
There were literally T-Shirts made, and
worn by some members of TC39 years
back that said, let is the new var.
This was a banner.
And there was a blog post by a TC39 member
that said, just do a global find and
replace on your program and replace
all occurrences with var with a let.
That is an enormously
stupid piece of advice.
Please do not do that.
It's a terrible idea.
Not only are you almost
certainly to create bugs, but
importantly than that,
you're misusing that feature.
Consistent with everything you've
already seen from me in this course,
I'm gonna tell you that let is
not just some across-the-board
replacement of the var keyword.
But it is an additional tool that we
should add on to our existing usage
which means that there are still
reasons to use the var keyword.
And that is similarly controversial or
unusual compared to my peers who
would tell you never, ever,
ever use the var keyword ever again.
And I'm gonna keep telling you
the var keyword has purpose.
Here's an example.
In this code, we have two vars.
We have a var that's on a for loop, and
we have a var that's essentially being
used across the entire function.